[Music]
[Applause]
how many calories should you consume to
lose weight if you've ever tried to lose
weight you're probably all too familiar
with those cunning little guys called
calories people usually think of them in
terms of how fattening a certain product
is so they believe that the fewer
calories you consume the more pounds you
lose hate to break it to you but there's
a lot more to weight loss than that
we're about to explore exactly how many
calories you need to consume based on
your personal situation so that you can
finally get rid of excess weight once
and for all but before we get into all
that don't forget to subscribe to our
channel and turn on post notifications
that way you won't miss any of the
helpful and interesting updates coming
out daily on the bright side of life
although it may sound pretty tiresome
counting and cutting down on calories
has helped lots of people shed unwanted
pounds the fact of the matter is that
you need to consume fewer calories than
you burn if you want to lose weight
period how fast that will happen depends
on how much you reduce your calorie
intake but it's not a one-size-fits-all
type of situation your ideal calorie
intake depends on your age height size
lifestyle gender and overall health at
the same time that are some general
recommendations the 2015 to 2020 Dietary
Guidelines for Americans advisement to
consume 2,500 calories a day while that
number for women is 2,000 little kids
should take in about 1,500 a day while
adolescents require a lot more
especially boys for instance an active
and rapidly developing male teen from 16
to 18 years old needs roughly 3200
calories per day as people get older
they need fewer calories the reason for
that is their metabolism slows down so
they need less energy that's why women
aged 19 to 25 need 2,000 calories a day
but that number drops to 1600 after they
turn 51 years old
according to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention if you consume
the same number of calories as you burn
you're in what's called caloric balance
this way your weight will remain stable
and unchanging if you take in more
calories than you burn you're in caloric
excess as a result you put on weight and
if you want to lose weight you need to
create a calorie deficit that is you
should consume fewer calories than you
burn and that's where the main problem
lies too many people get overly
enthusiastic and start under eating but
consuming only 800 or a thousand
calories a day isn't enough to support
your body mass during the weight loss
process not to mention you risk messing
up your metabolism or even worse
seriously harming your health so how can
you figure out the perfect daily calorie
amount that will lead to shedding
unwanted pounds without damaging your
system for one you can use an online
calorie calculator any search engine
will offer you a number of options to
choose from or you can use the Harris
Benedict equation first of all you'll
need to calculate your basic metabolic
rate or BMR using the following formulas
for women
BMR equals six hundred and fifty five
plus four point three five times your
weight in pounds plus four point seven
times your height in inches minus four
point seven times your age in years for
men BMR equals sixty six plus six point
two three times your weight in pounds
plus twelve point seven times your
height in inches minus six point seven
six times your age and years break down
the number you get in the end and then
move on to the next step of determining
your activity factor just choose which
of the following best describe your
general level of activity throughout the
day very light or sedentary you spend
most of your time in a seated position
as for your go-to free time activities
they include watching TV
reading perhaps strolling through the
park or doing light household chores if
that sounds like you then your activity
factor is 1.2 light you also spend a lot
of time sitting down you probably work
in an office but you get at least one
hour of moderate activity or exercise in
your schedule each day if so your
activity factor is one point three seven
five moderate you perform light physical
or manual labour throughout the day you
also get some intensive exercise that
lasts no less than half an hour three to
four times a week might be jogging
cycling swimming or playing active
sports like basketball or tennis in this
case your activity factor is one point
five five very active this will be your
level of activity if you exercise for no
less than one hour five to seven times a
week or perhaps your occupation demands
a lot of physical labor for example
construction work or it playing
carpentry farming and so on if this is
the case your activity factor is one
point seven extreme there aren't that
many people who have an extreme level of
activity but they do include for
instance athletes with demanding and
almost non-stop training sessions or
people who have an extremely hard
physical job such as steel workers or
miners these people's activity level is
1.9 after you figured out your level of
activity multiply your BMR by your
activity factor the number you get is
the number of calories you need to
consume every day to maintain your
weight if you want to lose weight try to
create a caloric deficit this will set
the wheels in motion and exactly how big
should this caloric deficit be that of
course depends on three things number
one how much do you exercise per day and
in what way you expend calories all the
time but some activities burn way more
calories than others here are several
examples of different activities
and how many calories you burn doing
them for half an hour for the sake of
calculation this is an approximation for
a person weighing 125 pounds simply
working on a computer
burns 41 calories weightlifting will
burn 90 calories half an hour of water
aerobics burns 120 calories walking at a
speed of 4.5 miles per hour will expend
a hundred and fifty calories just
swimming for half an hour
burns 180 calories running at a speed of
six miles an hour
burns 300 calories and even when you're
asleep you burn about 19 calories every
half hour number two what's your diet
like if you follow a high-protein diet
you burn more calories surprisingly your
body needs to make more of an effort to
digest and metabolize protein that's why
it's a good idea to alter your diet
instead of just eating less and number
three
what's your individual metabolism any
calorie calculator including the Harris
Benedict equation is based on averages
but you are you not some average or
generalization you can use these numbers
at the beginning of your weight loss
journey but later on you'll need to
adjust this system to your personal
needs as your metabolic rate changes
over time on average experts recommend
cutting down on 500 to 1,000 calories a
day to lose one or two pounds of fat in
a week but such a drastic reduction can
seriously influence your ability to lose
weight in the long run those pounds
you've shed with such difficulty and
strict limitations will come right back
as soon as you return to your previous
calorie intake that's why you should
take it slow and monitor every step you
take for example at the end of a two
week period check how much weight you've
gotten rid of if you're left
dissatisfied with the rate of your
weight loss try to include more physical
activity before you reduce the number of
calories you consume after that remove
another 250 calories from your daily
intake and test this approach for two
more weeks
there are also some tips on how to burn
energy faster so that you can lose
weight more efficiently eat a breakfast
full of protein and healthy fats that'll
keep you full for longer so that you
don't feel the desire to snack
throughout the day have your meals at
the same time this will help you burn
calories more effectively include slow
burning calories in your diet high-fiber
carbohydrates found in quinoa buckwheat
or beetroot and healthy fats in avocado
fish and olive oil need more time to
release energy so after eating them you
won't get hungry so quickly consume more
foods rich in fiber vegetables fruits
and whole grains will do you right
change your manner of eating try to rest
between courses and eat slowly
it usually takes your body 20 to 30
minutes to realize it's fall don't ban
your favorite fruits from your diet this
will only lead to cravings
feel free to spoil yourself with a treat
from time to time just keep the portions
small make a shopping list that includes
all the products you'll need for healthy
meals and snacks and more importantly
stick to this list when you go grocery
shopping what tricks do you use to lose
weight do you count calories tell us in
the comments below
and if your wish is to stay healthy and
slim on the bright side of life then
give us a thumbs up and be sure to
subscribe
you
[Music]